# State and Props

## React lifecycle

### Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?

In the diagram, `render` occurs before `componentDidMount`.

### What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?

`Mounting` is the first thing to happen, followed by `Updating` and ended by `Unmounting`

### Put the following things in the order that they happen:

~~~
`componentDidMount`, `render`, `constructor`, `componentWillUnmount`, `React Updates`
~~~

1. `constructor`
2. `render`
3. `React Updates`
4. `componentDidMount`
5. `componentWillUnmount`

### What does `componentDidMount` do?

from [React lifecycle](https://medium.com/@joshuablankenshipnola/react-component-lifecycle-events-cb77e670a093):

This method is invoked immediately after a component is mounted. If you need to load anything using a network request or initialize the DOM, it should go here. This method is a good place to set up any subscriptions.

## React State Vs Props

### What types of things can you pass in the props?

You can pass things like names, starting counter number, images; basically data that is going to be static.

### What is the big difference between props and state?

The biggest difference between props and state is that props are passed into a component like arguments to a function and are usually static while state is handled within a component and is used to update the data base on what the use does(like event listeners/handlers)

### When do we re-render our application?

An example for when we would want to re-render out application could be if we had a form and wanted the information to update based on user input

### What are some examples of things that we could store in state?

- Form
- A counter
- A table
- basically any data we want to update via user input
