# Introduction to React and Components

## Component-Based Architecture

### What is a “component”?

A component is a modular, portable, replaceable, and reusable set of well-defined functionality that encapsulates its implementation and exporting it as a higher-level interface.

### What are the characteristics of a component?

Components are:

- Reusable
- Replaceable
- Not context specific
- Extensible
- Encapsulated
- ndependent

### What are the advantages of using component-based architecture?

Some advantages are:

- Ease of deployment: it is easier to replace versions of components with newer, updated version without impacting the other components or system as a whole

- Reduced cost: The use of third-party components allows you to spread the cost of development and maintenance.

- Ease of development: Components implement well-known interfaces to provide defined functionality, allowing development without impacting other parts of the system.

- Reusability: The use of reusable components means that they can be used to spread the development and maintenance cost across several applications or systems.

- Modification of technical complexity: A component modifies the complexity through the use of a component container and its services.

- Reliability: The overall system reliability increases since the reliability of each individual component enhances the reliability of the whole system via reuse.

- System maintenance and evolution: Easy to change and update the implementation without affecting the rest of the system.

- Independent

## What is Props and How to Use it in React

### What is “props” short for?

“Props” is short for properties in React

### How are props used in React?

Props are used to pass data from one component to another in React. Props are read-only data that can be pass from parent components to child and/or grandchild components

### What is the flow of props?

The data flow of props are uni-directional, meaning, data can only be passed in one direction, from parent to child/grandchild.
