# CSS Transforms, Transistions & Animations

## Intro Statement

In this reading, we are introduced to some more cool CSS techniques in transforms, transitions and animations.
CSS animations can really make a website pop if used correctly, which can really affect the user interface experience. But if used poorly, it can make a webpage "loud" and visually unpleasant, so it's kinda like a double edged blade. We also learn about pyschological (pysch) safety. I really resonated with philosophy of pysch safety, it shows that there are companies that really care about their employees mental wellbeing by providing a safe space in which they can enjoy their work and the people they work with! Knowing that there are work spaces that employ is a huge boost in motivation for me because working with people you genuinely enjoy working with, doing what you love to do just sounds like paradise!

## CSS Transforms

### What does a CSS transform allow the developer to do to an element?

CSS transform allows us (the dev) to alter html elements. With transform, we are able to resize, rotate, skew and add movement to elements.

### Provide an example of a transform and how you could see that being used on a website

Transform can be used to subtlely move elements. This style of CSS usage can be visually pleasing to the user!

## CSS Transitions & Animations

### What does a CSS transition allow the developer to do to an element?

CSS transition allows the dev to add a time frame in which the animation takes place. This provides a way to control animation speed when changing CSS properties.

### How does a CSS animation differ from a CSS transition?

A CSS animation is anything that affects what the animated element is doing (scrolling, spinning, growing/shrinking, etc.) and a CSS transition is the amount of time in which an animation takes place.

## 8 simple CSS3 transitions that will wow your users

### What are some benefits to using CSS transitions on websites?

CSS transitions add an extra layer of engagement to users. Transition effects excite users, increase engagement and ultimately, when used well, increase your conversions.

### How this topic fit in with your long-term goals?

This topic has helped me learn that user transitions and animations can positively affect user experience if used in classy and tasteful fashion. A well designed website is really impactful!

## Psychological Safety

### What are three key factors that contribute to psychologically safe teams?

- Positive social sensitivity
- Sense of Empathy
- Equality in distribution of conversational turn-taking

### Evaluate, with details, a previous professional setting (or team) you were in with regards to psychological safety

Unfortunately, I have not experienced being in a professional setting or team that practiced the philosophy of pysch safety. The teams I have been a part of have had issues with micromanaging, minimal empathy. Even now, in my current role, we have an individualistic dynamic, my team only really conversed in a daily morning meeting in which we really only talk about work and and issues we are having systemically.

### What impact do teams that operate with a high degree of psychological safety have on their company and the team members?

The teams the operate in regards to pysch safety show to have higher rates or productivity. These teams are also very connected and have report higher rates of job satisfaction. Overall, people are happier and work better!
