
# HTML Links, JS Functions, and Intro to CSS Layout

## Intro Statement

## HTML

### To create a basic link, we wrap text or other content inside what element?

A basic link is created by wrapping the text or other content inside an `<a>` element and using the `href` attribute

### The `href` attribute contains what information?

The `href` attribute would contain the web address that is being linked.

### What are some ways we can ensure links on our pages are accessible to all readers?

- Use clear link wording
- Don't repeat the URL as part of the link text
- Minimize instances where multiple copies of the same text are linked to different places
- Keep your link text as short as possible — this is helpful because screen readers need to interpret the entire link text

## CSS

### What is meant by “normal flow”?

Normal flow is the default layout of a webpages elements if they are not changed with CSS.

### What are a few differences between `block-level` and `inline` elements?

#### **block-level element**

- A block level element's content fills the available inline space of the parent element containing it and grows along the block dimension to accommodate its content
- Block-level elements are laid out vertically

#### **inline elements**

- The size of Inline elements is just the size of their content
- Inline elements don't appear on new lines; instead, they all sit on the same line along with any adjacent (or wrapped) text content as long as there is space for them to do so inside the width of the parent block level element.

### "___" positioning is the default for every html element

**Static** positioning is the default that every html element gets.

### What is a key difference between fixed positioning and absolute positioning?

***Absolute positioning*** fixes an element in place relative to its nearest positioned ancestor and ***fixed positioning*** usually fixes an element in place relative to the visible portion of the viewport

## JS

### Describe the difference between a function declaration and a function invocation

A function declaration is when you are delcaring a function name with a parameter (optional) and a function invocation is basically when you "call" or start the function.

### What is the difference between a parameter and an argument?

A parameter acts the same as a variable and an argument acts as the value that is assigned to the parameter. I.e, a parameter's arguement = a variable's value.

## Misc

### Pick 2 benefits to pair programming and reflect on how these benefits could help you on your coding journey

#### **Greater Efficiency**

I believe this would help me just simply because two heads are better than one! Having a pair programming partner adds an extra pair of everthing that is needed to create better code!

#### **Learning from fellow students**

I believe this would help my journey immensly because everyone has a different skill set they accel at. Being exposed to these skill set will only reinforce my current skill sets, but also add versatility to it.

## Things I want to know more about
