
# Images, Color, Text

## Intro Statement

This topic cover the alt attribute to give an image a description in HTML. We  also cover how to imrpove accessibility of images with the use of the figure and figcapture elements. We talking about the difference btween a gif image and svg image, and what type of image file if preferred for screenshots. For CSS, we talk about foreground and background and their differences. We also talk about colors and text fonts and their appropriate usages.

## HTML

### What is a real world use case for the `alt` attribute being used in a website?

An `alt` attribute is useful in situations where the image cannot be seen/displayed or takes a long time to render because of a slow internet connection.

### How can you improve accessibility of images in an HTML document?

You can improve accessibility by using the `<figure>` and `<figcaption>` elements.  The `<figcaption>` element tells browsers, and assistive technology that the caption describes the other content of the `<figure>` element.

### Provide an example of when the `figure` element would be useful in an HTML document

The `<figure>` element would be useful for users that use a screen reader. Without it, there is nothing that semantically links the image to its caption, which can cause problems for screen readers. `<figure>` and, by extension, `<figcaption>` provide a clear link to the caption.

### Describe the difference between a `gif` image and an `svg` image, pretend you are explaining to an elder in your community

A `gif` image supports simple animation and is commonly used in social media for "short" videos, memes and other simple animations. A `svg` image popular tool for displaying 2D graphics, charts, and illustrations on websites.

### What image type would you use to display a screenshot on your website and why?

A `png` image file. This file type can provide an almost perfect pixel-for-pixel representation of the screen, rather than compressing groups of pixels together.

## CSS

### Describe the difference between foreground and background colors of an HTML element, pretend you are talking to someone with no technical knowledge

Foreground colors are color that sit in the front, like text. Background colors sit in the back, usually behind text and images.

### Your friend asks you to give his colorless blog website a touch up. How would you use color to give his blog some character?

I would color that would is naturally associated to the topic of the content the blog is presenting. I would also keep in mind not to use colors that do not mesh well with one another such as red with purple as they could affect users with poor vision.

### What should you consider when choosing fonts for an HTML document?

When choosing fonts one should check if the font they are using is a web safe font. There are only a certain number of fonts that are generally available across all systems and can therefore be used without much worry.

### What do `font-size`, `font-weight`, and `font-style` do to HTML text elements?

- `font-size`: Changes the size of the font, usually measured in pixels(`px`), `em`'s and `rem`'s.
- `font-weight`: Sets how bold the text is.
- `font-style`: Used to turn Italic on or off.

### Describe two ways you could add spacing around the characters displayed in an `h1` element

You can adjust the margin or the padding of the `h1` element.

## What I want to know more about
