# Forms and JS Events

## Intro Statement

In this section we are introduced to Forms and Events. Forms contain various types of input that allow the user to enter data into a webpage. Event listeners track events that occur within HTML elemetns and Event handlers perform actions afterwards.

## HTML Forms

### Why are forms so important in web development?

HTML forms are one of the main points of interaction between a user and a website or application. Forms allow users to enter data.

### When designing a form, what are some key things to keep in mind when it comes to user experience?

- Before starting, it is advisable to take a moment to think about your form, desgining a quick mock up will help with defining the right set of data you want the user to enter
- Keep in mind if your form is too big, you can risk frustrating and losing users
- Keep your form simple, only ask for data that is absolutely necessary

### List 5 form elements and explain their importance

- `<form>`: Defines a form and attributes that determine the form's behavior. Is a container for additional elements used within.
- `<fieldset>`:  Element that creates groups of widgets that share the same purpose, for styling and semantic purposes. Think of this as a box for the form and its nested elements to sit in.
- `<legend>`: Element that contains texts to decribe the purpose of the `<fieldset>` element(like a title).
- `<label>`: Element used to define a lable for an HTML widget. Very important for accessibility purposes.
- `<input>`: Element that is used to create interactive controls for `<form>`s to collect data from the user.

## JS Events

### How would you describe events to a non-technical friend?

Events are anything that happen that affects HTML elements. For example, a mouse click is a type of event.

### When using the `addEventListener()` method, what 2 arguments will you need to provide?

the name of the event we want to register this handler for, and the code that comprises the handler function we want to run in response to it.

### Describe the event object. Why is the target within the event object useful?

The event object is a parameter within an event handler. It is automatically passed to event handlers to provide extra features and information. The `target` property of the event object is always a reference to the element the event occurred upon.

### What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?

With bubbling, the event is first captured and handled by the innermost element and then propagated to outer elements. With capturing, the event is first captured by the outermost element and propagated to the inner elements.
