# Class 13

## Intro Statement

This reading introduces us to localStorage. localStorage is a file based data storage that stores in key value pairs to be saved and used again in a later session of a website.

## Local Storage and How To Use It On Websites

### Why would a developer use local storage for a web application?

[Local Storage and How To Use It On Websites](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/10/local-storage-and-how-to-use-it/):

Maintaining The State Of An Interface The Simple Way

This could be as crude as storing the entire HTML or as clever as maintaining an object with the state of all of your widgets.

One instance where I (the author) am using local storage to cache the HTML of an interface is the Yahoo Firehose research interface

The code is very simple — using YUI3 and a test for local storage around the local storage call:

```

YUI().use('node', function(Y) {
  if(('localStorage' in window) && window['localStorage'] !== null){
    var key = 'lastyahoofirehose';

    localStorage.setItem(key,Y.one('form').get('innerHTML'));

  if(key in localStorage){
      Y.one('#mainform').set('innerHTML',localStorage.getItem(key));
      Y.one('#hd').append('
    
        
```

### What information should not be stored in local storage?

You should not store users personal information or passwords in local storage. Data that is also meant to be shared should not be saved in localStorage.

### Local storage can store what type of data? How would you convert it to that type before storing?

Local storage can store any type of data, however, they can only be stored as strings. `JSON.stringify()` and `JSON.parse()` can be used as work arounds to store data as a string.

Example:

```

// creating an object literal

var car = {};
car.wheels = 4;
car.doors = 2;
car.sound = 'vroom';
car.name = 'Lightning McQueen';
console.log( car );

// Using `JSON.stringify()` to set object literal in local sotrage and `JSON.parse()` to call the local storage key

localStorage.setItem( 'car', JSON.stringify(car) );
console.log( JSON.parse( localStorage.getItem( 'car' ) ) );
```
