
# HTML Lists, CSS Boxes, JS Control Flow

## Intro Statement

This topic covers lists in HTML, the Box Model in CSS and Control flow in JS. This topic important because it teaches us about ordered list `<ol>` and unordered lists `<ul>` and the different uses in HTML as well as showing us how to change the style of both using CSS! We also learn the 4 sections that make up the box model. In Javascript, we dive into arrays, learn more about operators and expressions, conditionals (if, else if, and else statements) and are revisiting for and while loops.

## HTML

### When should you use an `unordered list` in your HTML document?

Unordered lists should be used when you are grouping a collection of items that do not have a numerical ordering, and their order in the list is meaningless.

### How do you change the bullet style of `unordered list` items?

To change the bullet style in CSS, select the `<ul>` you wish to style and select the `list-style` property.

### When should you use an `ordered list` vs an `unordered list` in your HTML document?

You would use an ordered listed if you are listing steps in a recipe, listing turn-by-turn directions, or even listing contestant placements for a tournament.

### Describe two ways you can change the numbers on `list items` provided by an `ordered list?`

With Attributes:

1. `reversed`
2. `start`
3. `type`

## CSS

### Describe the CSS properties of `margin` and `padding` as characters in a story. What is their role in a story titled: “The Box Model”?

In the story of "The Box Model", we have a group of knights called Margin. Margin's sole purpose is to protect the surrounding area around the castle of Border from the neighboring kingdoms. Inside Border, is an elite squad name Padding who are sworn protectors of the King whose name is Content.

### List and describe the four parts of an HTML elements box as referred to by the `box model`

- Margin: the outermost layer, wrapping the content, padding, and border as whitespace between this box and other elements
- Border: The area that wraps around the content and any padding
- Padding: The padding sits around the content as white space
- Content: The area where your content is displayed;

## JS

### What `data types` can you store inside of an `Array`?

In an array we can store various data types — strings, numbers, objects, and even other arrays. We can also mix data types in a single array.

### Is the `people` array (below) a valid JavaScript array? If so, how can I access the values stored? If not, why?

```
const people = [['pete', 32, 'librarian', null], ['Smith', 40, 'accountant', 'fishing:hiking:rock_climbing'], ['bill', null, 'artist', null]];
```

Yes, the `people` array is valid. If say you wanted to access "pete", you can run `console.log(people[0][0])`. This will pull the array with an index of 0 and within that array the item with the index of 0 will be pulled. For another example, if you wanted to access "fishing:hiking:rock_climbing" you can `run console.log([1][3])`.

### List five shorthand operators for assignment in javascript and describe what they do

`x += f()`

- Adds the value of the right operand to a variable and assigns the result to the variable.

`x -= f()`
  
- Subtracts the value of the right operand from a variable and assigns the result to the variable.

`x *= f()`
  
- Multiplies a variable by the value of the right operand and assigns the result to the variable.

`x /= f()`

- Divides a variable by the value of the right operand and assigns the result to the variable

`x %= f()`

- Divides a variable by the value of the right operand and assigns the remainder to the variable

### Read the code below and evaluate the last expression and explain what the result would be and why

```
 let a = 10;
 let b = 'dog';
 let c = false;

 // evaluate this
 (a + c) + b;
```

The result of the expression would be 10dog. In JS, `a` has been declared with the value of 10, a number. `b` has been delcared with the value `dog`, a string. `c` has been declared with the value `false`, a boolean, which has the same numerical value as 0. The codes adjusted values would like this: `(10 + 0) + 'dog'`. 10 + 0 would be calculated first because they are parenthesis which would equal 10 and then 10 + 'dog' would equal 10dog due to type coerscion.

### Describe a real world example of when a conditional statement should be used in a JavaScript program

A video game. A conditional statement in a video game could be if the player's number of lives reaches zero, then it is game over.

### Give an example of when a Loop is useful in JavaScript

A `while` loop would be useful to get the user to input the correct password whenever they are logging in to an account. The `while` would as much times as needed until the user inputs the correct password.

## Things I want to know more about
