
# Object-Oriented Programming, HTML Tables

## Intro Statement

In this section of our reading notes we learn about what domain modeling, HTML tables being used to structure data, Javascript constructors and how they allow us to create objects more efficiently and scrath the surface a little on prototypes.

## Domain Modeling

### Explain why we need domain modeling

Domain modeling allows us (the developer) to tackle multiple domain problems at once. A domain model that's articulated well can verify and validate your understanding of that problem

## HTML Table Basics

### Why should tables not be used for page layouts?

1. Reduces accessibility for visually impaired users
2. Tables produce tag soup, which can result in code being harder to write, maintain, and debug.
3. Tables are no automatically responsive, extra measures are need to have the table layout styling effectively work across a variety of devices.

### List and describe 3 different semantic HTML elements used in an HTML `<table>`

- `<thead>`
- `<tbody>`
- `<tfoot>`

## Constructors

### What is a constructor and what are some advantages to using it?

A constructor is a function that is used to create objects.

Advantages to using a constructor:

- Can create multiple objects more efficiently
- Allows us (the developer) to build code focused on domain modeling much easier

### How does the term `this` differ when used in an object literal versus when used in a constructor?

When `this` is used in an object literal, it is refering to the object istelf. When `this` is used in a constructor, the constructor binds `this` to the new object.

## Object Prototypes Using A Constructor

### Explain prototypes and inheritance via an analogy from your previous work experience

When I started at LG 5 years ago, I initially started off processing orders. When I got promoted to Order entry Specialist, I Inherited all of responsiblities that role required while still retaining my original role responsibilites. prototypes do not originally belong objects created by constructors, they are inherited.

## Things I want to know more about
