
# Problem Domain, Objects, and the DOM

## Intro Statement

In this reading we are introduced to JS objects and the DOM.

## JS Object Basics

### How would you describe an object to a non-technical friend you grew up with?

Think of an object like a box. We create this "box" and fill it with things like properties (data like names & numbers) and methods (functions). After filling this "box with properties and methods, we can close the box and retrieve our items (properties and methods) whenever we want. It basically makes our javascript code more organized by giving our code their own separate boxes

## What are some advantages to creating object literals?

- When you want to transfer a series of structured, related data items in some manner, for example sending a request to the server to be put into a database
- Easier to work with than an array, when you want to identify individual items by name.

## How do objects differ from arrays?

Objects contain properties and methods(functions), and arrays contain different data types, including objects.

## Give an example for when you would need to use bracket notation to access an object’s property instead of dot notation

If an object property name is held in a variable, then you can't use dot notation to access the value, but you can access the value using bracket notation.

**Example**:

```
let name = person['name']
```

## Evaluate the code below. What does the term `this` refer to and what is the advantage to using `this`?

```
const dog = {
  name: 'Spot',
  age: 2,
  color: 'white with black spots',
  humanAge: function (){
    console.log(`${this.name} is ${this.age*7} in human years`);
  }
}
```

`this` refers to the current object. `this` enables you to use the same method definition for every object you create.

## Introduction To The DOM

## What is the DOM?

The DOM is an acronym for Document Object Model which is a programming interface for web documents. It represents the page so that programs can change the document structure, style, and content. The DOM represents the document as nodes (HTML elements) and objects; that way, programming languages can interact with the page.

## Briefly describe the relationship between the DOM and JavaScript

Javascript can be used to manipulate the DOM.

## Things I want to know about
