# Debugging

## Intro Statment

This topic talks all about bugs and troubleshooting techniques that can be used to idenitfy and solve bugs. This topic is really important because debugging performed very often in a developers carrer. Most times we are working off of someone else's code and it can and will be hard at times to know exactly is the root cause of errors.

## What Went Wrong? Troubleshooting JavaScript

### Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error

#### **Syntax Errors**

- Will show in the dev tools console
- Usually are errors resulting from spelling/punctuating mistakes
- Variables that have not been defined previously

#### **Logic Errors**

- Syntax is correct but provides unexpected / undesired results
- Does not show in dev tools console
- Requires digging deeper to find root cause

### List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them

I just recently fixed a logic error for my lab09 assisgnment. This error that I ran into was giving me larger than expected value from the user inputs in my form. I initially thought the root cause of this error was from having re-used variable names in my event handler. After a little more digging, I eventually pushed my newly created store into an array and the console logged it to compare it to stores that were created via my constructor. After doing this I was easily able to find the error, the variables assigned with my user input were all strings and they were being concatenated instead of being numbers. I simply added the parseInt and parseFloat functions to my variables so that they would work as intended.

### How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals?

Going forward I will keep the following in mind when debugging:

1. I will always refer to the dev tools console first to determine whether an error is Syntax or Logic related, this will help me in identifying which error I have encountered.

2. When identifying the root cause of a Syntactic error, it is advisable to find where the error is occuring and then look at the code that comes before.

3. Double check for correct and consistent spelling as well as making sure to follow correct syntax.

## The JavaScript Debugger

### How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?

The JS Debugger tool is basically the developers tool belt. This tool belt is provided by the browser to help devs whenever they encounter a bug. When starting out, you will notice that when your code breaks from Syntactic errors, the JS Debugger tool will identify where the error occurred and what type of error happened. There is even a handy line next to the error to show which line and character space the error actually occurred. the JS debugger tool is really handy, however, it doesn't solve your errors for you. That part is for you to solve!

### Define what a breakpoint is

A breakpoint is a debugging technique used in JS. It pauses the execution of code to allow the dev to examine the root cause of the bug.

### What is the call stack?

A call stack is a mechanism for an interpreter to keep track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions — what function is currently being run and what functions are called from within that function, etc. -[MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Call_stack#:~:text=A%20call%20stack%20is%20a,from%20within%20that%20function%2C%20etc.)
