# Chart.js, Canvas

## Intro Statement

In this topic we have learn about the HTML element `<canvas>` as well as charts. `<canvas>` is very important if you want to be able to draw 2D graphics and one of the most commonly used 2D graphics are charts!

## JavaScript Canvas

### What does the `<canvas>` allow a developer to acheive?

`<canvas>` allows the developer to draw 2D grphics using JavaScript.

### What is the importance of the closing `</canvas> tag?

Any content between the opening and closing tags is fallback content that will display only if the browser doesn’t support the `<canvas>` element.

### Explain what the `getContext()` method does

The `getContext()` method returns a render context object.

## Chart.js Documentation

### What is Chart.js and how it can be brought into your project?

Chart.js is a JavaScript library that allows us, the developer, to draw graphs. This can (and will) be used to display a bar graph of clicks and views of our images in our Odd Duck Products project.

### List 3 different Chart types you can create using Chart.js

I will list all the different types!

- Area Chart
- Bar Chart
- Bubble Chart
- Doughnut & Pie Charts
- Line Chart
- Mixed Chart Types (a combination of two or more different chart types)
- Polar Area Chart
- Radar Chart
- Scatter Chart

## Easily Create Stunning Animated Charts with Chart.js

### What are some advantages to displaying data via a chart over a table?

- Better for displaying data
- Easier to look at and convey data
- More options to display data
- Charts are more customizable compared to tables

### How could Chart.js aid your previously created applications visually?

In salmon cookies, a line chart could have been used to visually compare the amount of cookies sold each hour in each location. A chart like this would make it far easier to compare sales per store. Additionally, a pie chart could be used to compare each stores total cookies. Both chart just make it visually easier to digest rather than just looking at the numbers.

